What is true about this code block?
Obj 1 and obj 2 cannot be garbage
collected leading to a memory leak.
Obj 1 and obj 2 will be garbage collected
immediately after setting them to null.
Obj 1 and obj 2 will only be garbage
collected after closing the browser tab,
or D obj 1 and
obj 2 can be garbage collected during
the next garbage collection cycle.
All right, let's get to the answer.
So the right answer is D, obj 1 and
obj 2 can be garbage collected during
the next garbage collection cycle.
So, that shouldn't have
been highlighted yet.
But anyway, so we have a code block
here and we have an add member function.
If you can kinda see that,
that returns the name and createdAt.
Then we create two objects with
the addMember and addMember Sarah.
So we have those variables kind of in our
global execution context now, and they
point to the objects in the heap, like the
heap is where we store all the dynamic,
like objects, functions,
anything that can change at runtime time.
So then we set object 1's friend
property to point to object 2, and
object two is friend property
to point to object one, right?
These are references and job decsripts.
They are just basically just
references to like addresses and
the heap of these objects.
Also these objects should
have included createAt field,
I forgot to have that in my animation,
sorry about that but.
So the object one should
also have a created at that.
Yeah, anyway we have that now.
And then we set the object one and
object two to null.
Now when this happens, the object gets
removed from the global context, but
object one and object two here now
still have a reference to each other.
Now in the case of modern browsers,
they also get deleted because they use
something called, or whenever an object
is not reachable anymore from the global
context, the objects are removed
from the heap as well.
So in this case, there is no reference
anymore from the global context, so
they use this mark and
sweep algorithm to say, okay,
these objects are not reachable anymore,
remove them from memory.
Older browsers or maybe some still use
that, they use the reference counting
algorithm, in which they count the
references that an object still has, but
in this case, you can see that the object
still has a reference to another object.
So that algorithm would kinda be like,
okay, we cannot clear these up
because they still reference each other,
which leads to a memory leak.
But in modern browsers, that's not
really an issue anymore because they get
removed as soon as there is no reference
from the global context to that object.
And of course, it doesn't have
to be a direct reference, right?
It can also be a nested one.
So, some objects can reference
other objects all the way down.
They also won't get garbage collected.
But yeah, that's just kind of the big
difference between modern garbage
collecting and older versions.